my name is Andy Shallal identify as an
artist first and foremost because I
think art is really what motivates a lot
of what I do I like mural work because
it is so expressive you can say so much
using other people's work I own busboys
and poets which is a restaurant and
coffee shop for the location of busboys
and poets is really sort of the
epicenter of the civil rights movement
at fourteenth and you street northwest i
wanted to sort of pay homage to that era
the fact that the place is located at
that area was only fitting that
something to honor the people on the
times of the civil rights movement
should be a part of that space so it has
a lot of the significant icons of the
civil rights movement and also has at
the center of it Gandhi who inspired so
many civil rights activists including
Martin Luther King it's a piece of
struggle wall it's about the nonviolent
resistance that took place here at this
country in the 60s somebody from the
institute for policy studies IPS saw the
mural at busboys and poets and asked me
if I'd be able to do one when I PS moved
into their new office and looked at the
board room which was stark white walls
they wanted to have something that they
can have here they can remind them of
their history and what IPS all about and
remind them of the struggles of the
civil rights movement of the Vietnam era
of the 80s of the 70s and so on so IP
has been around for four decades and
having four walls it was natural to sort
of divide up the walls into four
different decades so that when they're
having their meetings and they're having
their gatherings they can be reminded of
the work that they've done and the work
that still needs to be done
I'm from Iraq originally my family moved
to this country about 40 years ago and
we stayed in this country because of the
parenting in the situation that was
going on in Iraq the oppression the
people are facing they're my family
decided to stay here it's a lot to give
up to give up your culture new identity
in so many ways and you know one of the
things that sweetens the pie for you the
fact that you live in a country that's
free let's open that allows for freedom
of speech freedom of expression you know
I couldn't do this mural anywhere in the
world you know I can get all kinds of
trouble for it but here in America I'm
free to express myself free to say
whatever I want to and I want to hold
this country to its ideals because I
think often times we forget that ideals
don't just come that you have to fight
for them you have to continue reminding
our leaders that this country is not
about fear and oppression and all that
it's really about freedom and while we
are fighting this war on terrorism we
have to remind ourselves over and over
again that the purpose of why we're
fighting this war and not sort of
trample over the rights that we're
supposedly fighting for I miss seeing
Iraq i miss my relatives I left when I
was 11 years old and still have memories
of it and haven't been able to come back
because of the situation that's their
back then and now hopefully I'll make a
mirror like this back there one day
you